


About this Course
In this 2-hour long guided project, we will use a ResNet-18 model and train it on a COVID-19 Radiography dataset. This dataset has nearly 3000 Chest X-Ray scans which are categorized in three classes - Normal, Viral Pneumonia and COVID-19. Our objective in this project is to create an image classification model that can predict Chest X-Ray scans that belong to one of the three classes with a reasonably high accuracy. Please note that this dataset, and the model that we train in the project, can not be used to diagnose COVID-19 or Viral Pneumonia. We are only using this data for educational purpose.

Before you attempt this project, you should be familiar with programming in Python. You should also have a theoretical understanding of Convolutional Neural Networks, and optimization techniques such as gradient descent. This is a hands on, practical project that focuses primarily on implementation, and not on the theory behind Convolutional Neural Networks.

Note: This course works best for learners who are based in the North America region. We’re currently working on providing the same experience in other regions.






Key Concepts
Create custom Dataset and DataLoader in PyTorch
Train a ResNet-18 model in PyTorch to perform Image Classification









Welcome!
Welcome to Detecting COVID-19 with Chest X-Ray using PyTorch. This is a project-based course which should take less than 2 hours to finish. Before diving into the project, please take a look at the course objectives and structure:

Course Objectives
In this course, we are going to focus on the following learning objectives:

Create custom Dataset and DataLoader in PyTorch
Train a ResNet-18 model in PyTorch to perform Image Classification
By the end of this course, you will be able to create Convolutional Neural Networks, and will be able to train it to classify Chest X-Ray scans with reasonably high accuracy.

Course Structure
This course is divided into 3 parts:

Course Overview: This introductory reading material.
Detecting COVID-19 with Chest X-Ray using PyTorch: This is the hands on project that we will work on in Rhyme.
Graded Quiz: This is the final assignment that you need to pass in order to finish the course successfully.
Project Structure
The hands on project on Detecting COVID-19 with Chest X-Ray using PyTorch is divided into following tasks:

Task 1: Introduction
Task 2: Importing Libraries
Task 3: Creating Custom Dataset
Task 4: Image Transformations
Task 5: Prepare DataLoader
Task 6: Data Visualization
Task 7: Creating the Model
Task 8: Training the Model
Task 9: Final Results
Meet the Instructor
Amit is a Machine Learning Engineer with focus in creating deep learning based computer vision and signal processing products. He has led chat bot development at a large corporation in the past. Amit is one of the Machine Learning and Data Science instructors at Rhyme.

About Rhyme
This course runs on Coursera's hands-on platform called Rhyme. On Rhyme, you do projects in a hands-on manner in your browser. You will get instant access to pre-configured cloud desktops that have all the software and data you will need. So, you can just focus on the learning. For this project, this means instant access to a cloud desktop with Python, Jupyter, and PyTorch pre-installed.

Earn a Certificate
After you have completed the Detecting COVID-19 with Chest X-Ray using PyTorch hands-on project, you will be able to assess your knowledge using an ungraded assignment. Once you are comfortable with the concepts, take the final quiz, score higher than 80% to earn your certificate.



