Good afternoon ma'am
Good after noon guys.
Today out team is here to present on our project Egram Panchayat.

As MAhatma Gandhi quoted " The future of India lies in its villages", it would be useful that we focus on development
of our villages. As a first step towards development,we have came up with an idea towards digitalisation of ours villages.
Our goal is to bring Gram panchayat at the fingertips of our villagers . 


Before talking about our idea I would like to discuss about the problems faced by traditional system.

Talking about Panchayat,the first thought ,that strikes our minds , is about those piles of papers,documents.
Besides this there is a fear of losing or damaging the documents.
Next, people don't folllow deadline regarding bill payments and in times like this it is impossible for everyone to personaaly pay the bills.
Besides this Pamchayats needs to send thier officilas to notify about bills.
And Villagers need to visit in person to carry out bill transactions,issue documents with the panchayat.

Then , there is no awreness about the government schemes deployed for the benefit of people ,among the villagers.



So observing the above problems , we were encouraged to design some effiicent solutions. .First of all, Our Project would be able to 
provide secure payment gateway to pay revenue taxes online.Besides this the users will recieve digital payment Reciepts.
Secoondly,We have dedicated separate tab to display Government schemes available for villagers which will bring awreness among them.
Third, the villagers would be able to apply and issue personal documents like residential certificate etc.,digitally without visiting in-person.

LAstly, There will be admin friendly dashboard which will help the panchayat authorities to manage and administer their work.

Now talking about scope of out project , our main goal is to develop a hasssel free web portal which wil solve above problems.
Milestones to achieve , would be like sending reminder notifications to our end users regarding pending bills.
Though there are limitations , like a need of a large database , illiterate end users and yes definitely security of payments.


Our basic requirement ,is that we will require a conscious authority to manage all this works from the panchayat side.

At last,if successful, We would be able to expand our project to various other villages panchayats.

Now,I would like to hand over to govind.