-Focus more on implementations.



-advantages of cnn  ,and why we choose cnn over the other.
Answer : The main advantage of CNN compared to its predecessors is that it 
automatically detects the important features without any human supervision.
 For example, given many pictures of cats and dogs it learns distinctive 
features for each class by itself.







Convolutional Neural Network (CNN, or ConvNet) are a special kind of 
multi-layer neural networks, designed to recognize visual patterns directly 
from pixel images with minimal pre-processing. It is a special architecture 
of artificial neural networks. Convolutional neural network uses some of its 
features of visual cortex and have therefore achieved state of the art results
 in computer vision tasks. Convolutional neural networks are comprised of
 two very simple elements, namely convolutional layers and pooling layers. 
Although simple, there are near-infinite ways to arrange these layers for a 
given computer vision problem. The elements of a convolutional neural 
network, such as convolutional and pooling layers, are relatively straight
forward to understand. The challenging part of using convolutional neural 
networks in practice is how to design model architectures that best use 
these simple elements. The reason why convolutional neural network is 
hugely popular is because of their architecture, the best thing is there is no 
need of feature extraction. The system learns to do feature extraction and 

the core concept is, it uses convolution of image and filters to generate 
invariant features which are passed on to the next layer. The features in 
next layer are convoluted with different filters to generate more invariant 
and abstract features and the process continues till it gets final feature/
output which is invariant to occlusions. The most commonly used 
architectures of convolutional neural network are LeNet, AlexNet, ZFNet, 
GoogLeNet, VGGNet, and ResNet.

