


Python World Map Geovisualization Dashboard using Covid Data




Task 1: Access data via an API.

Task 2: Data Preprocessing.

Task 3:  Generate a choropleth map.

Task 4: Generate circular markers.

Task 5: Generate a heat map.

Task 6: Convert Jupyter notebook to dashboard.





About the Dataset
The data for this guided project is sourced from "COVID-19 Data Repository by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) at Johns Hopkins University" and is updated daily.

Official Github repository: https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19

The data for this project is accessed through an easy API developed by Kyle Redelinghuys.

Official site: https://covid19api.com/


An API (Application Programming Interface) is an interface that simplifies certain tasks, such as extracting subsets of data from a large repository or database.
Data is received from the API as one of the following formats:
Tabular Human-readable file: Tabular files that are organized into columns and rows. They have a “flat” structure rather than hierarchical. For example: CSV files (Comma Separated Values) , spreadsheets such as Microsoft Excel, etc.
Structured Machine-readable files: Files that are hierarchical and structured in a way that optimizes machine readability. They can be stored in a text format. For example: JSON files.
3.An API request has three stages:

Data request: You try to access a URL in your browser that specifies a particular subset of data. It is possible to request the entire data but will use a lot of computational power.
Data processing: The web server uses the url you entered, to query a specified dataset.
Data response: The web server then returns a data file.
4. REST, or RESTful, API is a common type of API. A RESTfulAPI is a web API that uses URL arguments to specify what information you need.

5. Authentication is used to identify who you are. This includes a username and password, which is used to identify who you are.

6. An HTTP request uses a token for authentication, so the the user does not have to keep sending their username and password across the server.

7. A token has 3 components:

Header: Contains the type of algorithm used to create the signature.
Payload: Contains the data that you requested.
Signature: Contains the encrypted part of the header and payload separated by a period.
8. "UTF-8" is a variable-width character encoding capable of encoding all 1,112,064 valid character code points in Unicode using one to four one-byte code units. The encoding is defined by the Unicode Standard, and was originally designed by Ken Thompson and Rob Pike.

9. A choropleth map has shaded or patterned regions corresponding to a statistical variable that represents an aggregate summary of a geographic characteristic within each area.

10. A heat map is a data visualization technique that shows magnitude of a phenomenon as two dimensional colors.











